![OGC Logo](http://portal.opengeospatial.org/files/?artifact_id=11976&format=gif "OGC Logo")

# Web Coverage Service 2.0 Interface Standard - Earth Observation Application Profile

The OGC Web Coverage Service (WCS) Application Profile - Earth Observation (EO-
WCS), defines a profile of WCS 2.0 [OGC 09-110r4] for use on Earth Observation
data.

## About

This GitHub repository was originally extracted from the Microsoft Word version
of the approved OGCÂ® Web Coverage Service 2.0 Interface Standard - Earth
Observation Application Profile (EO-WCS) [version
1.0](https://portal.opengeospatial.org/files/42722).

The repository tracks the latest version of the standard as it evolves. Pull
requests for fixes are appreciated, and new functionality will still be
considered even though version 1.0 has been adopted. The specification is done
in [asciidoc](http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/) a format supported by GitHub,
similar to markdown but with some features that make it better for
specifications, like automatic section numbering.

## Contributing

The contributor understands that any contributions, if accepted by the OGC
Membership, shall be incorporated into the formal OGC EO-WCS standards document
and that all copyright and intellectual property shall be vested to the OGC.

The WCS Standards Working Group (SWG) is the group at OGC responsible for the
stewardship of the standard.

The WCS SWG currently has the following email list:
   - wcs.swg@lists.opengeospatial.org -- [sign up here](https://lists.opengeospatial.org/mailman/listinfo/wcs.swg)
      - Private List
      - Access controlled archives
      - Requires OGC membership and Observer Agreement to protect IPR (intellectual property rights)

**SWG Chair: Peter Baumann**

**SWG Vice Chair: Stephan Meissl**

## Editing and commenting

The WCS SWG is accepting public comments and suggested revisions to the standard
via GitHub. To suggest changes to the standard please fork the repository and
submit a pull request with the desired changes. Please make one pull request per
logical requested change and be sure to include a comment in the PR with any
justification or reasoning on why the change is needed.

For more general comments (that don't include actual text changes to the
specification) please create a GitHub issue for that topic.

Complex changes and feature requests must go through the [change
request](http://portal.opengeospatial.org/public_ogc/change_request.php)
process. The details entered in the change request form will help the SWG
adjudicate and prioritize the request.
